# Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project
Project of the Coursera Getting and Cleaning Data Course

## Purpose
The purpose of this project is to demonstrate the ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set. The goal is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis.

## Prerequisite
* The 'UCI HAR Dataset.zip' file is needed for this analysis. Please download and unzip from this link:
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

* The R script code requires the folowing R libraries (Please verify and install if needed):
 - plyr
 - dplyr
 
## List of files included in the project
* run_analysis.R - R script code that generates the tidy dataset
* tidy_data.txt - Tidy dataset resulting of the execution of the R script file.
* CodeBook.md - A code book that describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or work that was performed to clean up the data and produce the tidy_data.txt.
* README.md - the file with instructions which should be reviewed at the beginning of the analysis.

## Execution of the R script code
* After unzip the "getdata-projectfiles-UCI HAR Dataset.zip", copy the resulting folder "UCI HAR Dataset" to the R working directory.
* Copy the run_analysis.R to the R working directory.
* Open R program and type the following in the command line: 
  - > source("run_analysis.R")
* The output file is called tidy_data.txt and is located in the R working directory.

## Verification of the tidy data result file
* To verify the tidy data set generated by the R script code, you should use the following lines:
  - > tidy_data <- read.table("tidy_data.txt", header = TRUE) 
  - > View(tidy_data)

